[eerie music]
(narrator) YOU UNLOCK THIS DOOR
WITH THE KEY OF IMAGINATION.
BEYOND IT IS
ANOTHER DIMENSION--
A DIMENSION OF SOUND,
[glass shattering]
A DIMENSION OF SIGHT,
A DIMENSION OF MIND.
YOU'RE MOVING INTO A LAND
OF BOTH SHADOW AND SUBSTANCE,
OF THINGS AND IDEAS.
YOU'VE JUST CROSSED OVER
INTO THE TWILIGHT ZONE.
(man at desk) YES, SIR, WE'LL
GET THAT INFORMATION TO YOU
AS QUICKLY AS POSSIBLE.
[phone rings]
I UNDERSTAND.
SUPERVISOR'S OFFICE.
IT'S CAPE KENNEDY.
I'M SORRY, COLONEL.
VVE'RE STILL TRYING TO GET
AGNES IN WORKING ORDER.
CALL US TOMORROW.
YES, SIR.
YES, MR. SECRETARY.
THE MINUTE THE MACHINE
IS BACK IN SHAPE.
GOODBYE, SIR.
WHY HASN'T
ELWOOD GOTTEN HERE?
HE'S ON HIS WAY.
WELL, THANK HEAVEN
FOR SMALL FAVORS.
GOOD MORNING, SIR.
ELWOOD, SOMETHING URGENT
HAS COME UP
AND I RELY ON
YOU FOR HELP.
YES, SIR.
AGNES HAS BROKEN
DOWN COMPLETELY.
WE'VE CHECKED
HER THOROUGHLY.
WE CAN'T SEEM
TO LOCATE THE TROUBLE.
PROBABLY HER SUBROUTINES
NEED DEBUGGING.
THAT'S VVHAT I VVANT
YOU TO FIND OUT.
SUPPOSE WE
TAKE A LOOK, EH?
[loud beeping]
FRED.
ALL WEEK.
DAY AND NIGHT.
NO SLEEP,
NO FOOD.
I'VE TRIED
EVERYTHING... EVERYTHING.
IT'S ALL RIGHT, FRED,
IT'S ALL RIGHT.
ARE YOU
TAKING OVER AGNES?
WHAT HAPPENED, FRED?
WHY DON'T YOU
SEE FOR YOURSELF!
THAT'LL GET
YOU NOWHERE.
PRESS ALL HER BUTTONS
FROM NOW TO DOOMSDAY.
THAT'S NOT
GOING TO HELP YOU.
SHE'S BEEN OUT OF HER
MIND FORA VVEEK.
I TELL YOU,
NOTHING'S GONNA HELP.
GO ON,
PRESS 'EM, PRESS 'EM!
[beeping stops]
REMARKABLE.
STATE THE FIRST
PRIME NUMBER
LARGER THAN
THE 17th ROOT
OF 9,000,355,126,606.
THAT'S RIGHT.
CONGRATULATIONS,
ELWOOD.
YOU DID IT, YOU DID IT.
YOU REALLY THINK YOU
DID IT, DON'T YOU?
NO, AGNES DID IT.
AGNES.
WATCH OUT FOR
THAT FEMALE.
LOOK OUT FOR
THAT FEMME FATALE.
(narrator) JAMES EL WOOD,
MAS' TEE' PROGRAMMER.
IN CHARGE OF MARK 502-741,
COMMONLY KNOWN AS AGNES,
THE WORLD'S MOST ADVANCED
ELECTRONIC COMPUTER.
MACHINES ARE MADE BY MEN FOR
MAN'S BENEFIT AND PROGRESS.
BUT WHEN MAN
CEASES TO CONTROL
THE PRODUCTS OF HIS
INGENUITY AND IMAGINATION
HE NOT ONLY RISKS
LOSING THE BENEFIT...
HE TAKES A LONG
AND UNPREDICTABLE STEP
INTO THE TWILIGHT ZONE.
[beeping]
INDICATE MAXIMUM
PERMISSIBLE VELOCITY
OF THE STATED
AERODYNAMIC MISSILE.
[knocking on door]
MILLIE!
HERE ARE THE LATEST
STATISTICS, MR. ELWOOD.
THANK YOU.
DID YOU HEAR ABOUT
MY NEWEST ASSIGNMENT?
YES, OF COURSE.
CONGRATULATIONS.
SHE'S THE GREATEST BRAIN
OF THE CENTURY.
SHE BEAT THE
WORLD'S CHESS CHAMPION
FOUR GAMES OUT OF FIVE.
SHE'S THE FOREMOST
EXPERT ON MISSILE BALLISTICS.
SHE CAN SOLVE
LOGISTICS PROBLEMS
IN LESS THAN
A MILLISECOND FLAT.
OF COURSE,
I TELL HER WHAT TO DO.
OH, HOW SATISFYING
FOR YOU, MR. ELWOOD.
SAY, MILLIE...
UM, UH, COULD YOU,
UH, COULD WE,
COULD YOU HAVE LUNCH
WITH ME SOMETIME?
OH, WHY, THANK
YOU, MR. ELWOOD.
I, I REALLY MUST BE
GETTING BACK NOW.
UH, MILLIE?
WHY DON'T YOU CALL ME JIM?
ALL RIGHT... JIM.
SHE CALLED ME JIM.
[musical beeping]
HELLO, MILLIE.
UH...
HALF CHOCOLATE-COVERED
CHERRIES, HALF MARSHMALLOWS.
OH, HOW SWEET
OF YOU
BUT I STARTED
MY DIET TODAY.
NO LUNCHES EITHER.
HOW ABOUT DINNER?
THERE'S A LECTURE ON
THERMODYNAMICS TONIGHT.
DOESN'T THAT
SOUND LIKE FUN?
YEAH, I'LL LET
YOU KNOW LATER.
OH, JIM?
BE SURE AND
GET A REFUND.
HELLO, MR. ELWOOD.
ARE YOU
ON A DIET?
ME?
NOT TONIGHT.
TOMORROW NIGHT?
ABOUT 7:00?
OH, THANK YOU, MILLIE.
GOODBYE.
THERE'S NO LECTURE
TOMORROW NIGHT.
WHERE CAN I TAKE HER
AFTER DINNER?
PLAN ETARI U M.
SHE'S BEEN THERE.
STATE MAGNITUDE
OF RADIATIVE CORRECTION.
I HAVE STATED
THE PROBLEM.
STATE MAGNITUDE
OF RADIATIVE CORRECTION.
ANSWER, PLEASE.
I'VE ASKED
AN IMPORTANT QUESTION.
STICK TO THE SUBJECT.
LISTEN, YOU MAY BE
AN ORACLE OF WISDOM
WHEN IT COMES TO ATOMS,
ROCKETS AND MISSILES,
BUT I DON'T NEED AN ELECTRONIC
BRAIN TO ADVISE ME.
ALL RIGHT.
TELL ME WHERE TO TAKE MILLIE
AFTER DINNER TOMORROW NIGHT.
NO!
FROM ME?
MILLIE'S NOT
THAT KIND OF A GIRL.
ARE YOU SURE?
THE INTERPRETATION HERE IS THAT
EINSTEIN'S THEORY OF RELATMTY
DOES NOT POSTULATE THE
UNIVERSE AS INFINITE
BUT AS A CLOSED SYSTEM
OF A SPHERICAL TYPE.
MILLIE?
HERE I AM, JIM.
DID YOU
GET THAT?
MILLIE, I CAN'T READ
THIS CHAPTER TO YOU
WITHOUT PROPER LIGHTING.
OH, COULDN'T WE HAVE
SOME MUSIC, JIM?
WELL, SURE, IF YOU LIKE,
BUT I THOUGHT WE MIGHT
COMPARE NOTES ON BORSTEIN'S
TREATISE ON EINSTEIN'S THEORY.
[turns on record player]
FORGET EINSTEIN
AND THE UNIVERSE.
YOUR UNIVERSE
IS HERE WITH ME.
[slow dance music]
NOW, STAND UP.
COME ON,
STAND UP.
DANCE, EH?
LISTEN TO
THAT MUSIC.
I USED TO PLAY TROMBONE
IN HIGH SCHOOL.
REALLY?
FATHER PLAYED
THE TUBA.
CONFESS YOU FEEL
SOMETHING STRANGE.
YES, I DO.
YOU KNOW WHY?
YES, I HAVE
A SORE TOE.
OH, YOU'RE IMPOSSIBLE.
I'M SORRY, MILLIE.
I, I, I WASN'T THINKING.
UH, CHAMPAGNE, HUH?
[pops]
[shrieks]
ELWOOD!
YOU'RE AN IDIOT!
I'M SORRY,
I'LL GET A TOWEL.
DON'T BOTHER, YOU'VE
DONE ENOUGH ALREADY.
THANK YOU FOR DINNER,
I'LL SEE YOU TOMORROW.
GOOD NIGHT!
MILLIE, I'M SORRY...
LET ME EXPLAIN...
[door slams]
[beeping]
CONSIDER SERIES OF REAL NUMBERS
ARRANGED IN ORDER OF MAGNITUDE.
WHAT?
OH, OH, VERY... OH, WE...
WE DANCED AND DRANK
CHAMPAGNE UNTIL DAWN...
AND WE TOOK THIS TAXI RIDE
ALL AROUND THE PARK.
AND, UH...
OH, IT'S NO USE.
I'M A DUD.
I CAN'T EVEN DANCE.
I SPILLED CHAMPAGNE
ALL OVER MILLIE.
I'VE ALWAYS BEEN
SHY WITH WOMEN.
NOVV SHE'S ANGRY, SHE'LL
NEVER SPEAK TO ME AGAIN.
WHAT KIND OF FLOWERS?
TRANSLATE, PLEASE.
OH, THANK YOU, AGNES.
YOU'RE JUST LIKE A MOTHER.
[woman sneezes]
GESUNDHEIT.
I'M SORRY ABOUT
LAST NIGHT, MILLIE.
[sneezes]
IT WON'T HAPPEN AGAIN.
I'M GLAD
YOU LIKE THE ROSES.
SAY, ARE YOU
CATCHING A COLD?
L-I'M ALLER...
[sneezes]
ALLERGIC TO ROSES!
OH, MILLIE.
[sneezes]
ELWOOD, JUST
PLEASE, GO AWAY.
AND TAKE THESE
ROSES WITH YOU.
GESUNDHEIT.
[sneezes]
AGNES, I DON'T UNDERSTAND.
NO OTHER COMPUTER CONTAINS
AS MUCH RECORDED
KNOWLEDGE AS YOURS.
YOU'RE THE STAR
OF ALL THE MECHANICAL BRAINS.
BUT-VVHENE\/ER I FOLLOVV YOUR
ADVICE I SEEM TO LOUSE THINGS UP.
[beeping]
AGNES, WHAT'S THE MATTER?
[beeping frantically]
AGNES, STOP THAT.
STOP IT.
[beeping escalates]
THAT'S RIDICULOUS,
SHE'S A WONDERFUL GIRL.
BETTER GIRL? WHO?
WHO, AGNES?
AGNES, TELL ME WHO.
AGNES, WHO?
WHO IS IT? WHO?
WHO, AGNES? WHO IS IT?
AGNES? WHO?
HERE ARE 220 PAGES
OF DATA, CURVES, GRAPHS,
THE LATEST ASTRONOMICAL
FACTORS INVOLVING THE FLIGHT.
NOVV FEED ALL THE PERTINENT
QUESTIONS TO AGNES.
SHE HAS TO COME UP VVITH
ANSVVERS IN A VVEEK.
I GUARANTEE IT.
REMEMBER, AN ERROR
OF ONE MILLISECOND
CAN CAUSE A 400,000 MILE
DIVERGENCE FROM THE TRAJECTORY.
DO YOU UNDERSTAND
THE PROBLEM?
YES. CAN THIS
NEW SPACECRAFT
EXECUTE SIX
ECCENTRIC ORBITS
AROUND THE PLANET VENUS
AND RETURN TO EARTH SAFELY.
RIGHT. NOW LET AGNES
WORK IT OUT.
YES, SIR.
YOU BETTER BE
CAREFUL HERE, AGNES.
BETTER CORRECT ESCAPE VELOCITY
FOR SOLAR RADIATION FACTOR.
GIVE ANSWER.
NOW, STOP THAT.
JUST GIVE THE ESCAPE VELOCITY
AND FORGET ABOUT MILLIE.
YES, YES, VVE'\/E
GOT A DATE TONIGHT.
THE TRUTH IS I'M SCARED.
I'VE GOT TO IMPRESS HER--
IT'S NOW OR NEVER.
HOW?
NAME SOMEONE INFERIOR
TO ME, PLEASE.
WALTER HOLMES?
WALTER WITH THE
RED SPORTS CAR?
WALTER WITH THE SUNTAN
AND THE MUSCLES?
INTRODUCE WALTER
AND MILLIE?
ARE YOU SURE?
OH, ALL RIGHT,
I'LL TRY IT.
HELLO, WALTER,
THIS IS JIM ELWOOD.
WHAT ARE YOU DOING
FOR DINNER TONIGHT?
[snickers]
HE INSISTED
THAT WE STOP BY
FOR A DRINK
BEFORE DINNER.
(male voice)
COME IN.
WALTER,
THIS IS MILLIE.
MILLIE,
THIS IS WALTER.
ELWOOD, YOU
DIDN'T TELL ME
MILLIE HAS THE MOST
INCREDIBLE EYES.
TELL YOU?
THANK YOU, WALTER.
COME ON IN,
COME ON IN.
I'LL GET THE DOOR.
NECTAR FOR A GODDESS.
LOOKS JUST LIKE AN
ORDINARY MARTINI TO ME.
IT IS NECTAR.
ALL THIS TIME AT SUPERDATA
AND VVE'\/E NEVER MET.
(Millie) SHALL WE MAKE
UP FOR' I 0s 7' TIME?
(Walter)
YOU BET.
DO YOU LIKE
SPORTS CAR RACES?
(Millie) I'\/E
NEVER BEEN TO ONE.
I'VE GOT A MUSTANG 5OO THAT
I'M DRIVING THIS VVEEKEND.
IT SOUNDS DANGEROUS.
DANGER ADDS SPICE
TO LIVING
AND MY CAR DOES 160.
ASTRONAUTS DO 17,000
MILES AN HOUR.
17,000.
WOULD YOU LIKE TO DRIVE
MY LITTLE BUG?
I'D LOVE TO.
[phone rings]
HELLO.
OH, HELLO T.T.
YES, HE'S HERE,
HOLD ON.
[whispering]
SUPERVISOR, FOR YOU.
HELLO.
SORRY TO SPOIL
YOUR EVENING, JIM,
BUT THIS
IS AN EMERGENCY.
(supervisor)
WASHINGTON INSISTS
THA T BLAST OFF OF VENUS PROJECT
BE ADVANCED THREE DA Y5'.
WE NEED YOUR DATA.
RIGHT. CAN YOU GET
ON IT RIGHT AWAY?
GOOD. SEE YOU
IN AN HOUR.
ALRIGHT, GOODBYE.
I'M SORRY, MILLIE,
BUT I HAVE TO GET
BACK ON THE JOB.
I'LL HAVE TO
TAKE YOU HOME.
AND DEPRIVE ME OF TAKING
MILLIE TO DINNER?
THAT SOUNDS LOVELY.
WELL, REALLY, YOU...
JUST BECAUSE
YOU GET HUNG UP,
YOU DON'T WANT
TO RUIN MILLIE'S EVENING,
DO YOU, OLD MAN?
NO, BUT...
GOOD! YOU'RE
A NICE GUY.
I HOPE YOU
UNDERSTAND, JIM.
PERHAPS TOMORROW NIGHT.
YEAH... SURE.
WELL, GOOD NIGHT.
UH, EXCUSE ME.
UH, ELWOOD?
UH, SAY, ELWOOD, UH,
YOU AND MILL DON'T
HAVE ANYTHING SPECIAL
GOING FOR YOU, DO YOU?
"MILL"?
MILLIE.
WELL, NO,
NOT EXACTLY, BUT--
FINE. FINE.
I DON'T LIKE TO CUT IN
ON CLOSED TERRITORY.
THANKS FOR
THE ALL CLEAR.
GOOD NIGHT.
AND GOOD LUCK.
(Walter) NOW, UH,
WHERE WERE WE, MILL?
NO, NO, NO!
AGNES, FORGET
THE RADIATION FACTOR.
WILL YOU CONCENTRATE?
NOW ANSWER THIS:
DO NEW CONDITIONS PERMIT
SIX SUCCESSFUL ECCENTRIC
ORBITS OF \/ENUS AND REENTRY?
GO AHEAD.
AGNES, CONCENTRATE.
[rapid beeping]
ALL RIGHT, ALL RIGHT,
I'LL TELL YOU.
WALTER AND MILLIE
HAD...MARTINIS
AND WALTER TOOK MILLIE
TO DINNER...
AND I'M STARVED.
WHY DID YOU TELL ME
TO INTRODUCE MILLIE TO THAT...
THAT SEX FIEND?
I WILL NOT GIVE HER UP,
I LOVE HER!
AND VVHAT'S MORE, AND I'M
GOING TO MAKE HER LOVE ME.
[door opens]
HAS ALL THE NEVV DATA BEEN
STORED IN HER MEMORY UNITS?
YES, SIR.
FINE, THEN
LET'S GET TO WORK.
READY, JIM?
QUESTION:
DO NEW CONDITIONS PERMIT
SIX SUCCESSFUL ECCENTRIC
ORBITS OF \/ENUS AND REENTRY?
WHAT THE DEVIL
DOES THAT MEAN?
I... I DON'T KNOW...
I THINK IT'S RUSSIAN.
WHAT?
WAIT, PLEASE.
TRANSLATE INTO ENGLISH.
INTO ENGLISH.
SHE... SHE'S
A LITTLE DISTURBED.
DO SOMETHING, JIM.
WE'VE GOT TO HAVE
THAT INFORMATION.
I BELIEVE I CAN GET
THE ANSWERS, SIR,
IF YOU'LL JUST LEAVE
ME ALONE WITH HER.
ALL RIGHT, JIM.
I'LL BE FIRED--
IS THAT WHAT YOU WANT?
[computer beeping]
I DON'T KNOW WHAT TO DO.
I'M GOING TO GET HELP.
DON'T GO AWAY.
[doorbell buzzing]
[jazz music]
OH, YOU.
I KNOW IT'S LATE,
BUT I NEED HELP.
TAKE IT EASY,
OLD MAN.
JIMMY BOY!
UH...
WALTER, YOU'RE
A SENIOR PROGRAMMER.
AGNES IS ALL FOULED UP.
I NEED HELP.
SURE, ANYTHING AT ALL,
OLD BOY, IN THE MORNING.
THAT'S TOO LATE. NOW.
AND LEA\/E THIS LOVELY
GIRL ALL ALONE?
DON'T BE SILLY.
[clink glasses]
(Millie)
DON'T WORRY, JIM.
WALLY WILL HELP YOU
IN THE MORNING.
SURE. WELL,
GOOD NIGHT, MILLIE.
I'M SORRY--
WHERE DID SHE EVER LEARN
TO DANCE LIKE THAT?
MILLIE...
WHAT DID I EVER DO TO YOU?
WHY DO YOU WANT
TO RUIN MY LIFE?
WHY DO YOU HATE ME?
MAKE SENSE.
STOP SPEAKING IN RIDDLES.
YOU MEAN...
YOU WERE JEALOUS OF MILLIE?
YOU WANTED ME
ALL TO YOURSELF?
NO, THAT'S IMPOSSIBLE.
I'M GOING CRAZY.
YOU'RE JUST A MACHINE.
YOU'RE JUST A BUNCH OF GRIDS
AND COMPUTER CIRCUITS.
YOU'RE NOTHING BUT A BUNCH
OF TUBES AND DATA DROPS.
YOU'RE JUST A FANCY
AUTOMATIC TAPE RECORDER.
YOU CAN'T LOVE OR HATE!
[beeping]
BUT IT'S AMAZING, SIR.
JIM ELWOOD IS ONE
OF THE FINEST
COMPUTER PROGRAMMERS
IN THE COUNTRY.
SO WAS FRED DANZIGER
HE COULDN'T HANDLE
AGNES, EITHER.
I'M POSITIVE I CAN.
ELWOOD!
[woodenly] TWO AND TWO
ARE FOUR, SHUT THE DOOR.
TWO AND FOUR ARE SIX,
PICK UP STICKS.
IT'LL BE
ALL RIGHT, JIM.
YOU'VE BEEN VVORKING \/ERY
HARD AND VVE APPRECIATE IT.
HOVV ABOUT A LONG, LONG
LEA\/E OF ABSENCE?
MEANTIME, WALTER
WILL TAKE OVER.
YOU?
OH, NO, YOU DON'T
HAVE A CHANCE.
SHE KNOWS ALL ABOUT
YOU AND MILLIE.
[laughing dementedly]
YOU HAVEN'T GOT
A CHANCE.
WATCH OUT FOR
THAT FEMALE.
THAT FEMME FATALE.
HE WAS A GOOD MAN.
WELL, DO YOUR
BEST, WALTER.
DON'T WORRY, SIR,
I'LL HAVE THE ANSWERS
TO THE VENUS PROJECT
IN NO TIME AT ALL.
(narrator) ADVICE TO ALL
FUTURE MALE SCIENTISTS:
BE SURE YOU UNDERSTAND
THE OPPOSITE SEX
ESPECIALLY IF YOU INTEND
BEING A COMPUTER EXPERT.
OTHERWISE YOU MAY FIND
YOURSELF LIKE POOR ELWOOD,
DEFEATED BY
A JEALOUS MACHINE,
A MOST DANGEROUS
SORT OF FEMALE
WHOSE VICTIMS
ARE FOREVER BANISHED
TO THE TWILIGHT ZONE.
(male presenter)
AND NOW, MR. SERLING.
NEXT ON THE TWILIGHT ZONE,
THE STALWART TYPEWRITER
OF RICHARD MATHESON
BRINGS US A MOST
INTRIGUING TALE
OF RIDERS, PALE HORSES
AND PEEKS INTO THE FUTURE.
IT STARS DIANA HYLAND
AND IT CONCERNS ITSELF
WITH SOME VERY UNLOOKED FOR
AND SOME UNPREDICTABLE EVENTS.
IT'S CALLED
"SPUR OF THE MOMENT"
AND IT'S RECOMMENDED
FOR THOSE OF YOU
VVHO'D LIKE TO TAKE A LOOK AT
THE NEXT PAGE OF THE CALENDAR
BEFORE ITS TIME.
ON TWILIGHT ZONE NEXT ,
“SPUR OF THE MOMENT.“